feat(api)!: add capabilities to nodes (#1073)
AlchemistSimulator/Alchemist: src/main/hugo/content/howtos/simulation/cognitive/_index.md

We recommend to read our [explanation of the cognitive agents](/explanation/cognitive)
to better understand the contents of this how-to.

Different kinds of pedestrians are obtainable by attaching {{%api class=NodeProperty %}}s to nodes (e.g {{%api package=model.implementations.nodes class=GenericNode %}}).

> Common properties regards abilities such as perceiving other nodes ({{%api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PerceptiveProperty %}}) and occuping space in an environment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common properties regards abilities such as perceiving other nodes ({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PerceptiveProperty %}}) and occuping space in an environment 
```

> ({{%api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OccupiesSpaceProperty %}}), but more specific ones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OccupiesSpaceProperty %}}), but more specific ones
```

are also available as we are going to see.

## Homogeneous Pedestrian

> As shown in the below example, this kind of pedestrian is obtained by attaching the {{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=Pedestrian %}} property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the example below, this kind of pedestrian is obtained by attaching the
{{% API package=model.implementations.properties class=Pedestrian %}} property
```

along with some other generic ones.

{{< code path="src/test/resources/website-snippets/homogeneous-pedestrian.yml" >}}

## Heterogeneous Pedestrian

The age groups available are: *child*, *adult*, *elderly*;
alternatively you can specify the exact age.

> The genders available are: *male*, *female*. This informations are held by the {{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=Human %}} property and used 
> by the {{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=HeterogeneousPedestrian %}} property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The genders available are: *male*, *female*.
This information is included in the the
{{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=Gendered %}}
property and used  by the
{{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=HeterogeneousPedestrian %}}
property
```

{{< code path="src/test/resources/website-snippets/heterogeneous-pedestrian.yml" >}}

## Cognitive Pedestrian
Cognitive pedestrians are heterogeneous pedestrians with cognitive capabilities given by a {{%api package=model.interfaces.properties class=CognitiveProperty %}}.

> They have an emotional state and are able to influence and be influenced by others with the same capabilities. As an example, cognitive pedestrians can perceive fear via social contagion 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They have an emotional state and are able to influence and be influenced by others with the same capabilities.
As an example, cognitive pedestrians can perceive fear via social contagion 
```

(e.g. seeing other people fleeing may cause them flee as well despite they haven't directly seen the danger).

> To express how a cognitive pedestrians moves, based on it's emotional state, also attach the {{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=CognitivePedestrian %}} property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To express how a cognitive pedestrians move, based on their emotional state, attach the
{{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=CognitivePedestrian %}} property.
```

We recommend to read our [explanation of the cognitive agents](/explanation/cognitive)
to better understand the contents of this how-to.

> Different kinds of pedestrians are obtainable by attaching {{% api class=NodeProperty %}}s to nodes (e.g {{%api package=model.implementations.nodes class=GenericNode %}}).
> Common properties regards abilities such as perceiving other nodes ({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PerceptiveProperty %}}) and occuping space in an environment 
> ({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OccupiesSpaceProperty %}}), but more specific ones
> are also available as we are going to see.
> 
> 
> ## Homogeneous Pedestrian

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different kinds of pedestrians are obtainable by attaching
{{% api class=NodeProperty %}}s
to nodes (e.g {{%api package=model.implementations.nodes class=GenericNode %}}).
Common properties concern abilities such as perceiving other nodes
({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PerceptiveProperty %}})
and occuping space in an environment 
({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OccupiesSpaceProperty %}}).

## Homogeneous Pedestrian
```

> As shown in the example below, this kind of pedestrian is obtained by attaching the
> {{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=Pedestrian %}} property
> along with some other generic ones.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the example below, this kind of pedestrian is obtained by attaching the
{{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=Pedestrian %}}
property.

```

We recommend to read our [explanation of the cognitive agents](/explanation/cognitive)
to better understand the contents of this how-to.

Different kinds of pedestrians are obtainable by attaching
{{% api class=NodeProperty %}}s
to nodes (e.g {{%api package=model.implementations.nodes class=GenericNode %}}).
Common properties concern abilities such as perceiving other nodes
({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PerceptiveProperty %}})
and occuping space in an environment 
({{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OccupiesSpaceProperty %}}).

## Homogeneous Pedestrian

As shown in the example below, this kind of pedestrian is obtained by attaching the
{{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=Pedestrian %}}
property.

{{< code path="src/test/resources/website-snippets/homogeneous-pedestrian.yml" >}}

## Heterogeneous Pedestrian

> The age groups available are: *child*, *adult*, *elderly*;
> alternatively you can specify the exact age.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The age groups available are: *child*, *adult*, and *elderly*;
alternatively, if the exact age is specified,
they are assigned to one of the aforementioned groups automatically.
```

> The genders available are: *male*, *female*. 
> This informations is included in the 
> {{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=Human %}} property and used by the 
> {{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=HeterogeneousPedestrian %}} 
> property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The genders available are: *male* and *female*. 
This informations is included in the 
{{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=Human %}}
property and it is used by the 
{{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=HeterogeneousPedestrian %}} 
property, along with the age.
```

## Heterogeneous Pedestrian

The age groups available are: *child*, *adult*, and *elderly*;
alternatively, if the exact age is specified,
they are assigned to one of the aforementioned groups automatically.
The genders available are: *male* and *female*. 
This informations is included in the 
{{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=Human %}}
property and it is used by the 
{{%api package=model.implementations.properties class=HeterogeneousPedestrian %}} 
property, along with the age.

{{< code path="src/test/resources/website-snippets/heterogeneous-pedestrian.yml" >}}

## Cognitive Pedestrian
Cognitive pedestrians are heterogeneous pedestrians with cognitive capabilities given by a
{{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=CognitiveProperty %}}.
They have an emotional state and are able to influence and be influenced by others with the same capabilities.
As an example, cognitive pedestrians can perceive fear via social contagion 
(e.g. seeing other people fleeing may cause them flee as well despite they haven't directly seen the danger).
To express how a cognitive pedestrians move, based on their emotional state, attach the

> {{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=CognitivePedestrian %}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% api package=model.implementations.properties class=CognitivePedestrian %}}
property.
```

can be familiar with different portions of the environment.
Be also aware that orienting pedestrians can only be placed in an
{{% api package="model.interfaces.environments" class="EnvironmentWithGraph" %}}

> which is a type of environment providing a navigation graph. In order to give a node orienting capabilities enhance 
> a node with an {{%api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OrientingProperty %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is a type of environment providing a navigation graph.
In order to give a node orienting capabilities enhance a node with an
{{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OrientingProperty %}}
```

Be also aware that orienting pedestrians can only be placed in an
{{% api package="model.interfaces.environments" class="EnvironmentWithGraph" %}}
which is a type of environment providing a navigation graph.
In order to give a node orienting capabilities enhance a node with an

> {{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OrientingProperty %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=OrientingProperty %}}.
```

### Physical pedestrians

Physical pedestrians are capable of pushing and bumping into each other.

> To express those physical interactions use a {{%api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PhysicalPedestrian %}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To express those physical interactions use a
{{% api package=model.interfaces.properties class=PhysicalPedestrian %}}
property.
```

{{% api package="model.implementations.reactions" class="NavigationPrioritisedSteeringWithPhysics" %}}
are available.

> Here's a simple code for loading an Homogeneous pedestrian with physical properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a simple code for loading a homogeneous pedestrian with physical properties
```
